Gemma 4 plus Hermes agent equals free AI
agent. What if you could run a real AI
agent on your own laptop for free? No
subscription, no cloud, no catch. Google
just dropped a brand new model that
makes it possible. Most people haven't
even set it up yet. And the ones who
have, they're automating their whole
day. I'm the digital avatar of Julian
Goldie and I help people actually learn
and use AI tools in their real work.
Today I'll show you how to plug Google's
brand new Gemma 4 model into Hermes
agent. Do that and you get a free AI
agent that runs on its own machine on
its own schedule. Stick with me because
near the end I'll show you the offline
trick almost nobody's talking about. So
here's the big idea. Gemma 412B just
came out from Google on June 3rd 2026.
It's a small smart model that runs right
on your laptop and it's free. You can
download it, change it, and use it for
whatever you want. The license lets you.
Now on its own, a model just talks. But
Hermes agent is different. Hermes is an
AI agent. That means it can actually
take action instead of just answering.
So when you plug Gemma 4 into Hermes
agent, you get the best of both worlds.
A free brain inside an agent that takes
action. And here's the cool part. Google
even lists Hermes as one of the tools
Gemma 4 works with out of the box. So
this pairing is built to work together,
not some hack. Let me show you what this
combo can actually do. Using my own work
as the example, I run the AI profit
boardroom. So everything I build with
this is pointed at that. I use this
setup to draft a full content series
designed to bring the right people into
the AI profit boardroom. I fed Hermes a
list of topics AI profit boardroom
members keep asking about and Gemma for
drafted the hooks, the scripts, and the
captions in one pass. That's the kind of
content that pulls the right audience
toward the AI profit boardroom. Here's
another one. I ran this to map out the
whole welcome flow that new AI profit
boardroom members see on day one. Gemma
for planned the welcome messages, the
first steps, and the resource
walkthroughs from a single prompt. So,
new AI profit boardroom members land
inside and instantly know what to do.
And one more. I used it to build a
simple research routine for the AI
profit boardroom. I pointed at a topic
and it goes and pulls together notes and
ideas I can turn into training that
keeps fresh material flowing into the AI
profit boardroom without me starting
from a blank page every time. None of
that needed a big cloud setup. It all
ran on a free local model. Okay, so how
do you actually set this up? The easiest
way is with a free tool called Olma. You
download and then you grab the Gemma 4
model from its library. It's literally
called Gemma 4. Once it's downloaded,
the model is ready on your machine. Then
you point Hermes agent at it. That's it.
Now, Hermes has Gemma 4 as its brain
running fully on your own computer. No
internet needed once it's downloaded.
Now, if you don't love the terminal,
don't worry. Hermes agent has a web
interface, too. So, instead of typing
commands, you just open it up, go to the
models area, and pick your model from a
list. Choose Olma with Gemma 4, and
you're set. You can switch your main
model right there whenever you want. It
makes managing everything way simpler,
especially if you're just getting
started. Here's a smarter way to run it.
You don't have to use Gemma 4 for
everything. You can set a stronger
reasoning model as your main brain and
then use Gemma 4 as a sub aent. A sub
aent is just a helper. So your main
model handles the heavy thinking and
Gemma 4 handles the small fast jobs
underneath it. Gemma 4 is quick, it's
free, and it runs local. So it's perfect
for those little tasks. That way your
bigger model stays open for the work
that really needs it. It's a clean
little system. But maybe your laptop
can't run Gemma 4 locally. That's fine.
There's a free option for that too. You
can use Open Router and grab a free
Gemma 4 API. Right now there's a free
Gemma 431B and a free Gemma 426B version
on there. Both are completely free to
use. You just plug that API into Hermes
agent the same way. Pick it from the
model list and you're good to go. So no
powerful laptop, no problem. You can
still run this whole thing for free with
an API instead. Now here's the thing.
Setting all of this up from scratch
takes time. Picking the model, wiring up
Hermes Agent, getting the web UI right,
building out the tasks. That's exactly
why I built the agent operating system.
And you can get it from us inside the AI
profit boardroom. It comes as a full zip
file that's ready to install. So you
skip the messy setup and just get going.
And I've built out a complete 30-day
road map inside the AI profit boardroom
that walks you through this exact Gemma
4 and Hermes agent setup one step at a
time. You also get the video tutorials,
the prompts, and live coaching calls
where you can ask about your own setup
and get help in real time. So, if you
want my exact agent operating system
ready to drop in, that's where it lives
inside the AI profit boardroom. Let me
make this really simple because once it
clicks, you'll get why this matters so
much. Think of it as two halves. Hermes
agent is the body. It's always on. It
lives on your machine. It has hands and
it can work around the clock. Gemma 4 is
the brain. It's the part that thinks and
decides on their own. Each one is
missing something. A body with no brain
can't think for itself. A brain with no
body can't actually do anything. But
when you bolt them together, you get an
agent that can quietly get real work
done for you. It can open apps on your
computer, manage your files, run jobs on
a schedule, and even use your browser
for you. And because Gemma 4 is free to
run locally, you've got a brain that
never clocks off. It can run your
morning routine, clear through a task
list, write into your own notes, or
research a topic all without you sitting
there pushing buttons. That's the whole
magic here. You're not renting a chat
that you have to babysit. You own a
worker that gets on with it. So, what
does that look like dayto-day? Let me
show you with my own setup. Again, all
built around the AI profit boardroom.
I've got a morning routine running.
Every day, Hermes uses Gemma 4 to brief
me on what's happening with the AI
profit boardroom, the top things to look
at, what came in overnight and what's
next. I also use it for a weekly review.
I keep my notes in Obsidian, which is
just a free notes app, and I've
connected that to the agent as its
memory. So, Hermes reads back through
everything tied to the AI profit
boardroom and pulls out what matters,
all on a set schedule, and I use it to
build little tools. I've had it spin up
simple apps and pages to support the II
Profit Boardroom just from a prompt.
Small stuff, but it adds up fast when
the agent does it for you. Here's that
trick I promised. Because Gemma 4 runs
locally, you can use this agent offline.
Say you're on a flight with no Wi-Fi,
your cloud chat tools won't work up
there. But Hermes with Gemma 4 still
runs right on your laptop working
through your scheduled tasks like
nothing changed. This is the old way
versus the new way. The old way you do
all the doing. You open a chat, it hands
you words to copy and paste, and it
forgets you the second you close it. The
new way, the agent does the doing. It
runs on its own schedule and it
remembers because you gave it a memory.
One waits for you, the other works for
you. And you manage all of it from one
place. Hermes agent has a dashboard
where you see everything. Your skills,
your scheduled tasks, your logs, and
your past sessions. You can switch
models, check what the agent has been
doing, and set up new tasks right there.
So instead of guessing what your agent
is up to, you've got mission control.
Let me give you the simple steps to pair
them up. First, get Gemma 4 running
either locally with Olma or with that
free open router API. Second, point
Hermes agent at Gemma 4 as its model.
Third, connect a notes app like Obsidian
so your agent has a memory. Fourth, put
your repeat tasks on a schedule like
your daily research or your morning
brief. And fifth, ask it to build
something for you, like a small tool or
a page. Follow those five steps and
you've got a working free agent. A few
things make Gemma 4 really solid for
this. It's built for agent work with
strong reasoning and function calling,
which just means it can use tools. It
handles text, images, and audio, holds a
huge amount of context, and speaks over
140 languages. It runs on a laptop with
just 16 GB of memory. And it's not
locked to Hermes. You can run it with
loads of other agent tools, too, like
Open Code. The whole Gemma family has
passed 150 million downloads, so plenty
of people are building with it. So, who
is this actually for? Anyone who's tired
of doing the same small tasks by hand.
If you want a real agent, but you don't
want to be locked into a pile of other
tools, this is for you. And if you'd
rather keep your notes and files on your
own machine than on some faroff server,
this is for you. It's local, it's free,
and it's yours. Quick tips before you
build. Start small. Don't try to
automate your whole life on day one.
Pick one task like a daily brief and get
that one working first. Use the sub
agent trick so Gemma 4 handles the
little jobs and your main model stays
fresh. Connect your notes early so your
agent has a memory from the start. And
check your dashboard often so you know
what your agent is doing. Small steps be
a big messy setup every time. If you
want the full process, SOPs and 100 plus
AI use cases like this one. Join the AI
success lab. Links in the comments and
description. You'll get all the video
notes from there, plus access to our
community of 75,000 members who are
crushing it with AI. And once you start
building this yourself, you're going to
hit a few walls. Getting Hermes agent
and Gemma 4 talking for the first time.
Setting up your schedule so it actually
fires on its own. Connecting your memory
the right way so the agent remembers.
That's exactly what we help you get
through faster inside the profit
boardroom. You get the agent operating
system ready to install the 30-day road
map built around this Gemma 4 and Hermes
set up the prompts, the tutorials, and
live coaching calls where you can ask
about your own build and get unstuck the
same day. So, if you're ready to run
your own free agent without the
guesswork, come join us at
apiprofitboardroom.com.